joining us here in the studio is Tamar
kmut he's an assistant professor of
public policy at the Doha Institute for
Graduate Studies good to have you with
us so what would the implications be of
such a a boycott movement touching
giants like Google Amazon
Microsoft uh Sammy the implications
would be significant uh especially on
the long run if the momentum uh keeps uh
uh going uh when it comes to this um but
for me the human factor is the most
critical Factor let's see who are these
students these are students of IV league
universities Elite universities most of
them these are the universities that
that provide the pipeline of employees
for the same companies we're talking
about the future leader of these
companies so it's a critical juncture
we're talking about a significant event
to see these IV league universities
rebelling against the establishment
against the corporates so this might not
be confined if these students are
successful this kind of boycott
divestment effort might not be confined
entirely to classrooms and universities
if they succeed of course of course
because they're highly correlated with
the workforce with the economy so and
and when we see students who stand on
principled values on ideas you cannot
buy this buy this with money you know
it's it's hard because this is a value
system you are in conflict with an
entire value principle system that this
these students represent but ham do you
really think they can succeed here given
the forces they're going up against it's
not going to be an easy battle but the
train has left the station Sammy this is
a snowball now it's a moving snowball
and all what we wish for is for it to
grow and grow and then we see a a huge
shift in public opinion and a new
realities is forming you know against
this
oppression uh talking about things
spreading are we already seeing the
protest at least spreading
geographically now going more Global so
interestingly um uh uh I think Europe uh
h the first or early demonstrations and
protests and now we see a huge shift I
mean that the momentum is going to the
US the US has become a center and
because of the US uh symbolism and it's
it's its positioning on on the world
mapping I think now it's it's spreading
all over the globe you know so we see it
in Europe we see it in Australia and I
think we'll see more and more I mean of
course there's so many countries who
already took a principal position to
support Palestine China Russia other
bricks country Latin American countries
we don't we don't see they're
demonstrating because their governments
have took the right stand so but the
problem is with the governments and the
politicians who took the opposite stand
or the wrong stand on this by protecting
Israel so it's good to see this these
students you know protesting and trying
to put pressure on their governments to
end this Bloodshed T bear with us for a
second cuz talking about positions the
politicians taking a position let's
listen in to what Bernie Sanders had to
say no Mr Netanyahu it is not
anti-Semitic or pramas to point out that
in a little over 6 months your extremist
government has killed 34,000
Palestinians and wounded more than
78,000 70% of whom are women and
children it is not anti-semitic to point
out that your bombing has completely
destroyed more than
221,000 housing units in Gaza leaving
more than a million people homeless
almost half the population Mr
Netanyahu anti-Semitism is a vile and
disgusting form of bigotry that has done
unspeakable harm to many millions of
people but please do not insult the
intelligence of the American people by
attempting to distract us from the
immoral and illegal War policies of your
extremist and racist government
how significant is it when we see
prominent us Jewish figures telling
Israeli officials off for how they use
the an anti-Semitism charge it is
significant and and because of whose
Bernie Sanders is I mean Bernie Sanders
specifically
represents uh he's a leader of a
progressive movement uh of of especially
of the young voters especially in the
Democratic parties uh the Democratic
party and I think there the the fact
that he's saying this bluntly uh and
accusing of insulting the the American
people and even the Jewish people by
saying this I think it's significant
because it will just uh uh add more uh
momentum to to the entire movement and
historically let's remind everyone the
Jewish people Muslim people Christians
in this part of the region especially in
pistan never had an issue of of of a
problems of coexistence the problem of
Zionism and Zionism is the problem here
and this is something the US politicians
have tried to deflect by equaling usism
with anti-i anti-Semitism criticizing
Israel with anti-Semitism and that's
totally wrong the problem is with
Zionism as a not with Judaism especially
in this part of the world all right
thanks so much Tam kmut bless